# Reflection
In our project, *This Was Paris 1970* , we aimed to both archive and analyze the photos taken during the *C’était Paris en 1970* photography contest, which had the goal of documenting how life was like in Paris during the year 1970, when a multitude of construction projects were going on. The most interesting aspect of the project, to me, was the system that we devised to translate the photos and metadata from the physical archive into a digital archive.

Our main priority with designing this archive was to make it as easy as possible for future maintainers to add more photos into the database and have it automatically analyze the photos to obtain meaningful results about them. To do this, we used Google Sheets to store information about photos, photographers, and map squares, and Google Drive to store the actual photos. The only work that maintainers of the archive must do is to simply upload the photo to Google Drive, and add an entry for that photo into the spreadsheet. Because we used these Google services to store our data, it means that multiple maintainers can simultaneously add photos to the archives without worrying about overriding each other’s work. The rest of the work to analyze and upload the photos to the website is done by our code.

To convert the data in our Google Drive and Sheets into a database that can be used by our front-end, we used a function called syncdb, which synchronized the photos that the server contains in its database with what we have on the spreadsheet. Through this function, we are able to associate each photo with its appropriate metadata and photo URLs which are used by the front-end in constructing its display. Because we used a SQL database on the server, we could filter photos by different fields relatively quickly compared to doing something similar with a physical archive. With the photos in the database, we could run analysis functions on the photos to try to come up with insightful results. As users of the front-end, we could query the digital archive for specific photos based on photographer, map square, name, analysis results, and many other fields, which allowed us to find trends in the photos that were not possible before with the physical archive of the photos.
