#A Brief Reflection

[//]: <> (What accomplishments in the lab are you most proud of?)
[//]: <> (This was an incredibly difficult year, and you were all amazing! How did working in the lab contribute to your personal experience at MIT this semester?)
[//]: <> (What worked well? List any favorite experiences, projects, Tuesday sessions, social activities, etc. from this semester.)
[//]: <> (What could we do better?)

I am more than grateful for the opportunity to work with the DH Lab. I never thought that I would find a CS-oriented UROP in the 21L department, but I quickly realized that it was the perfect fit for my background. I had plenty of fun working on this project, and I learned a lot about programming practices, teamwork, and even a little French!

I worked on two mini-projects this semester: an analysis function that quantified the level of detail in a photo and an interactive map on the front page that would display the map squares on top of a modern-day map of Paris. The analysis function takes and flattens the 2d array of pixels represented in the photo into a one-dimensional array of floats. It then divides array into sections and computes the standard deviation of pixels in each section, tallying them up and returning the average of all these standard deviations. When our group displayed the photos sorted according to the output of the analysis function, the photos were indeed sorted by how "business" in a photo, with photos of open scenery coming first and photos of crowded cities and cluttered rooms coming last. I am proud of how my group took a high-level concept of "detail" in a photo and quantified it with a specific set of classifications, and it motivated me to think more deeply about translating ideas into tangible processes. This expression of high-level analysis in code challenged me at first, but I definitely grew in my critical thinking and approaching difficult problems.

The interactive map on the homepage required a different programming language, and though I came into the lab with some experience in Python and HTML/CSS/JS, I had never worked on a project of this scale, nor had I seen these languages interact with one another. Using React Leaflet and OpenStreetMap, my group and I set up an interactive view of the map squares by classifying them by page (i.e. the pages of the map square book as recorded by Professor Catherine Clark), creating an output CSV with some extra metadata, and creating a grid of all the regularly-shaped map squares (the map has yet to display the irregular map squares that were on the boundaries of the space allocated for the competition). It was particularly challenging to get the map to appear at all, since there were many complications between using React, installing Leaflet, and fitting the map within the dimensions of the site. What started as one task multiplied into many obstacles, but I am proud of how our team was willing to work harder and persevere in resolving any issues that came with displaying the map. Even though this project mainly involved React, I was fortunate enough to practice with some CSS in establishing the dimensions of the map to ensure that it appeared for the user, regardless of screen size. These small complications turned out to be great learning experiences in adapting our plan for the site to one that was acheivable yet extensible. While we might have like to add more features to the map, our prototype is at least presentable and offers a solid foundation for future developers to work on the interactive map view.

Considering both mini-projects, I am most proud of how well my group worked with one another. We always met during the open hack hours on weekends and maintained clear communication throughout the projects, and we acheived great results. We all learned from one another, and I enjoyed working with people from different backgrounds. On a more personal level, interacting with others on a weekly basis made me feel more more connected to the MIT community, and the fun we had gave me hope for life at MIT after the pandemic. Indeed, I chose to attend MIT mainly because of its community and how willing people were to collaborate and work together on interesting problems, even after official work hours. Thanks to this UROP, I'm even more excited to continue pursuing my academic endeavors.

And thank you, Ryaan, for all of your help. We could not have hacked _anything_ without you.

-Joshua Feliciano.
